README.md, before:

# Translation project for NumFocus

<!-- This document is intended to provide you with a copy of the questions that are -->
<!-- asked in the Small Development Grant Proposal Submission form, so that you can -->
<!-- prepare, share, and edit your answers prior to submission. -->
<!---->
<!-- Please note: All proposals for the SDG program must be submitted through the -->
<!-- form to be considered for funding. -->

## Name of Submitter:
Open Science Labs
## Your Email:

## Is your project Sponsored or Affiliated?

Sponsored

## Select Your Project:

SciPy

## Proposal Title:

Breaking down language barriers: Spanish translation of the SciPy and NumPy
project main websites.

## Two Sentence Summary of Proposal:

To improve the accessibility of SciPy for Spanish-speaking users, we would like
to translate its main website and the main website for NumPy into Spanish.

## Description of Proposal:

<!-- No more than 750 words (4,500 characters max) -->

SciPy is a well-established open-source library for scientific computing,
providing a wide range of tools for numerical methods, optimization, signal
processing, statistics, and more. As a community-driven project, SciPy has
gained widespread adoption and recognition among the scientific and engineering
communities worldwide.

However, the SciPy website is currently only available in English, which may
hinder its accessibility and impact for Spanish-speaking users who might not be
fluent in English. This language barrier could prevent many potential users from
accessing valuable resources, learning new skills, and expanding their
opportunities.

To address this issue, we propose a collaborative project between SciPy and Open
Science Labs to translate the main SciPy website into Spanish. The main goal of
this project is to promote diversity and inclusion by making the SciPy's
resources accessible to a wider audience, regardless of their linguistic
background. Since skillful use of SciPy depends on knowledge of NumPy, we also
intend to translate the main NumPy website into Spanish.

The translation process will involve several steps, starting with the adaptation
of a style guide and the creation of a glossary to ensure consistency and
accuracy throughout the translation. Next, we will extract the website content
and work with a team of two expert translators to perform the translation and
adaptation of the content.

We will also have a dedicated person to check the translations and ensure that
the style guide, and grammatical rules are being followed correctly. This person
will also provide feedback and suggestions to improve the overall quality of the
translation.

Once the translation is complete, we will proceed to the revision process and
make sure that the translated content meets the required quality standards.
Finally, we will upload the translated content to a new directories in the
SciPy and NumPy repositories, generate the necessary layout to enable users to
switch between languages on the website, and submit pull requests to SciPy and
NumPy for approval.

To carry out this project, we will need a team of four people, including a web
developer, two expert translators, and a translation reviewer. Open Science Labs
will provide the necessary resources and tools to manage the translation
process, as well as technical support to ensure a smooth collaboration with
SciPy maintainers.

The estimated time for the entire project is approximately 176 hours of work,
including translation, quality assurance, technical implementation, and
communication with the SciPy team. By collaborating on this project, we can
create a more inclusive and diverse community of users, and enable
Spanish-speaking scientists to access valuable resources and tools that can help
them advance their research and careers.

## Please explain the benefit of this proposal, including:

<!-- No more than 400 words (2,500 characters max) -->

**Impact to the project**

Translating the SciPy and NumPy websites can have a significant impact on the
accessibility of SciPy to the scientific Spanish-speaking community. It can also
attract more Spanish-speaking contributors, diversifying the community and
bringing new perspectives and ideas to the project.

**Impact to the Scientific Ecosystem**

Translating these websites to Spanish can make these tools more accessible to
Spanish-speaking researchers and practitioners in STEM. Additionally, making
these tools more accessible can help promote diversity and inclusion in the
scientific ecosystem, leading to a more equitable and collaborative scientific
community. This can help increase the Latin scientific research, which can lead
to new discoveries, innovations, and applications in a wide range of fields. In
addition, the produced glossary and style guide could be a valuable resource for
future translation efforts.

**Impact to the Community**

This translation can have a positive impact on the Spanish-speaking community at
large. It can help increase access to resources and tools for learning and
working with scientific computing and data analysis, which can help advance
education and career opportunities for Spanish-speaking individuals in STEM.

## Amount Requested:

2640$

## Brief Budget Justification:

The money received will be used to pay the people involved in the project:

- Planning and coordination of the workflow ($90) 
- Protocol and project planning ($90) 
- Adaptation of the style guide and creation of a glossary ($150) 
- Extraction of the content (240$) 
- Translation process ($1500)
- Review and quality control ($345) 
- Deployment of the translations to the websites ($225)



<!-- Nota: Se estima que un traductor(a) gane 0.05$ por palabra y que una persona -->
<!-- puede traducir 300-350 palabras por hora. Se asume en este caso, que la -->
<!-- persona va a traducir 300 palabras por hora. -->

## Timeline of Deliverables:

<!-- Please include specific timelines showing when you will achieve the proposed work. -->

The translation project will be completed within a timeframe of two and a half
months, with different tasks assigned for each week. The first week will focus
on planning and coordinating the workflow, including adapting the style guide
and creating a glossary.

The second week will involve extracting the content to be translated and
configuring the content on Crowdin.

The third to eighth week will be devoted to translation.

The seventh, eighth and ninth weeks will be dedicated to revision and quality
control of the translations. We make sure that the style guide is followed and
that Spanish grammar rules are correctly applied. We will also start checking
the content to be used on the websites.

The last two weeks of the project are for the placement of the translation on
the website.

Throughout the process, the Protocol and Project Planning Officer will fulfil
their role. They will skilfully organise and facilitate meetings between
stakeholders, carefully check materials and competently carry out other
activities essential to the success of the project.

If the project can be completed in less time than planned, the extra budget will
be used to improve the translation of another related project
(e.g. scikit-learn, pandas).

## Has someone been identified to carry out the work in the proposal?

How many persons we needs?

- **If YES**: Please list the name(s) of the person(s) who will be carrying out
  the work and a short statement (approximately 1 sentence) of why they are
  qualified.

- Yurely Camacho, with a degree in statistics, participated in the translation
  of the scikit-learn 0.24.2 documentation into Spanish and she is a collaborator
  in Open Science Labs.

- Anavelyz Perez, with a degree in statistics, participated in the translation
  of the scikit-learn 0.24.2 documentation into Spanish and she is a collaborator
  in Open Science Labs.

- Ever Vino, Software Developer with experience in FrontEnd projects  and
  creation of static websites with Hugo Site generator.  He is also a
  collaborator in opensource projects at Open Science Labs.

- Agustina Pesce, physicist with a PhD in geophysics. She is also committed to
contributing to open source software projects to improve the openness and
reproducibility of science.

<!-- -->
Note: To complete the team, we need to find and join one more person. Should be:

- A translation reviewer with knowledge of Spanish who is also fluent in English.

## Please list the name and email address of a project leader(s) who has approved this proposal.

Ralf Gommers <ralf.gommers@gmail.com>

## For OFF-CYCLE proposals ONLY:

Why isn't it possible to submit this proposal during a regular funding round?
Why is this an urgent request? i.e. - if you are submitting a request outside of
the three formal calls for proposals, what is the justification?

Commit message:

Update with changes to the NumFocus form (#6)

README.md, after:

# Translation project for NumFocus

<!-- This document is intended to provide you with a copy of the questions that are -->
<!-- asked in the Small Development Grant Proposal Submission form, so that you can -->
<!-- prepare, share, and edit your answers prior to submission. -->
<!---->
<!-- Please note: All proposals for the SDG program must be submitted through the -->
<!-- form to be considered for funding. -->

## Name of Submitter:
Open Science Labs
## Your Email:

## Is your project Sponsored or Affiliated?

Sponsored

## Select Your Project:

SciPy

## Proposal Title:

Breaking down language barriers: Spanish translation of the SciPy and NumPy
project main websites.

## Two Sentence Summary of Proposal:

To improve the accessibility of SciPy for Spanish-speaking users, we would like
to translate its main website and the main website for NumPy into Spanish.

## Description of Proposal:

<!-- No more than 750 words (4,500 characters max) -->

SciPy is a well-established open-source library for scientific computing,
providing a wide range of tools for numerical methods, optimization, signal
processing, statistics, and more. As a community-driven project, SciPy has
gained widespread adoption and recognition among the scientific and engineering
communities worldwide.

However, the SciPy website is currently only available in English, which may
hinder its accessibility and impact for Spanish-speaking users who might not be
fluent in English. This language barrier could prevent many potential users from
accessing valuable resources, learning new skills, and expanding their
opportunities.

To address this issue, we propose a collaborative project between SciPy and Open
Science Labs to translate the main SciPy website into Spanish. The main goal of
this project is to promote diversity and inclusion by making the SciPy's
resources accessible to a wider audience, regardless of their linguistic
background. Since skillful use of SciPy depends on knowledge of NumPy, we also
intend to translate the main NumPy website into Spanish.

The translation process will involve several steps, starting with the adaptation
of a style guide and the creation of a glossary to ensure consistency and
accuracy throughout the translation. Next, we will extract the website content
and work with a team of two expert translators to perform the translation and
adaptation of the content.

We will also have a dedicated person to check the translations and ensure that
the style guide, and grammatical rules are being followed correctly. This person
will also provide feedback and suggestions to improve the overall quality of the
translation.

Once the translation is complete, we will proceed to the revision process and
make sure that the translated content meets the required quality standards.
Finally, we will upload the translated content to a new directories in the
SciPy and NumPy repositories, generate the necessary layout to enable users to
switch between languages on the website, and submit pull requests to SciPy and
NumPy for approval.

To carry out this project, we will need a team of four people, including a web
developer, two expert translators, and a translation reviewer. Open Science Labs
will provide the necessary resources and tools to manage the translation
process, as well as technical support to ensure a smooth collaboration with
SciPy maintainers.

The estimated time for the entire project is approximately 176 hours of work,
including translation, quality assurance, technical implementation, and
communication with the SciPy team. By collaborating on this project, we can
create a more inclusive and diverse community of users, and enable
Spanish-speaking scientists to access valuable resources and tools that can help
them advance their research and careers.

## Please explain the benefit of this proposal, including:

<!-- No more than 400 words (2,500 characters max) -->

**Impact to the project**

Translating the SciPy and NumPy websites can have a significant impact on the
accessibility of SciPy to the scientific Spanish-speaking community. It can also
attract more Spanish-speaking contributors, diversifying the community and
bringing new perspectives and ideas to the project.

**Impact to the Scientific Ecosystem**

Translating these websites to Spanish can make these tools more accessible to
Spanish-speaking researchers and practitioners in STEM. Additionally, making
these tools more accessible can help promote diversity and inclusion in the
scientific ecosystem, leading to a more equitable and collaborative scientific
community. This can help increase the Latin scientific research, which can lead
to new discoveries, innovations, and applications in a wide range of fields. In
addition, the produced glossary and style guide could be a valuable resource for
future translation efforts.

**Impact to the Community**

This translation can have a positive impact on the Spanish-speaking community at
large. It can help increase access to resources and tools for learning and
working with scientific computing and data analysis, which can help advance
education and career opportunities for Spanish-speaking individuals in STEM.

## Amount Requested:

2640$

## Brief Budget Justification:

The money received will be used to pay the people involved in the project:

- Planning and coordination of the workflow ($90) 
- Protocol and project planning ($90) 
- Adaptation of the style guide and creation of a glossary ($150) 
- Extraction of the content (240$) 
- Translation process ($1500)
- Review and quality control ($345) 
- Deployment of the translations to the websites ($225)

Payment Term 15$/hour


<!-- Nota: Se estima que un traductor(a) gane 0.05$ por palabra y que una persona -->
<!-- puede traducir 300-350 palabras por hora. Se asume en este caso, que la -->
<!-- persona va a traducir 300 palabras por hora. -->

## Timeline of Deliverables:

<!-- Please include specific timelines showing when you will achieve the proposed work. -->

The translation project will be completed within a timeframe of two and a half
months, with different tasks assigned for each week. The first week will focus
on planning and coordinating the workflow, including adapting the style guide
and creating a glossary.

The second week will involve extracting the content to be translated and
configuring the content on Crowdin.

The third to eighth week will be devoted to translation.

The seventh, eighth and ninth weeks will be dedicated to revision and quality
control of the translations. We make sure that the style guide is followed and
that Spanish grammar rules are correctly applied. We will also start checking
the content to be used on the websites.

The last two weeks of the project are for the placement of the translation on
the website.

Throughout the process, the Protocol and Project Planning Officer will fulfil
their role. They will skilfully organise and facilitate meetings between
stakeholders, carefully check materials and competently carry out other
activities essential to the success of the project.

If the project can be completed in less time than planned, the extra budget will
be used to improve the translation of another related project
(e.g. scikit-learn, pandas).

You can view the timeline in the following spreadsheet: 
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iBkS6WKec0WzQI7s-9u9vBy__FnF7QYTwTArTOP57aE/edit?usp=sharing

## Has someone been identified to carry out the work in the proposal?

How many persons we needs?

- **If YES**: Please list the name(s) of the person(s) who will be carrying out
  the work and a short statement (approximately 1 sentence) of why they are
  qualified.

- Yurely Camacho, with a degree in statistics, participated in the translation
  of the scikit-learn 0.24.2 documentation into Spanish and she is a collaborator
  in Open Science Labs.

- Anavelyz Perez, with a degree in statistics, participated in the translation
  of the scikit-learn 0.24.2 documentation into Spanish and she is a collaborator
  in Open Science Labs.

- Ever Vino, Software Developer with experience in FrontEnd projects  and
  creation of static websites with Hugo Site generator.  He is also a
  collaborator in opensource projects at Open Science Labs.

- Agustina Pesce, physicist with a PhD in geophysics. She is also committed to
contributing to open source software projects to improve the openness and
reproducibility of science.

<!-- -->
Note: To complete the team, we need to find and join one more person. Should be:

- A translation reviewer with knowledge of Spanish who is also fluent in English.
<!-- -->

## How will someone be identified to carry out the work? This question is required.

We have identified almost all of the people we need for the project, with one exception. 
We are currently in the process of contacting people within our network who meet the 
requirements for this role.

## Please list the name and email address of a project leader(s) who has approved this proposal.

Ralf Gommers <ralf.gommers@gmail.com>

## For OFF-CYCLE proposals ONLY:

Why isn't it possible to submit this proposal during a regular funding round?
Why is this an urgent request? i.e. - if you are submitting a request outside of
the three formal calls for proposals, what is the justification?
